---
layout: default
title:  "Week 13"
date:   2017-12-03 17:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## The Last Post
With project presentations happening all this week, this post is going to be about this course as a whole. I think that this course is a part of the missing engineering component of computer science at UT. Surprisingly enough, most UTCS graduates will probably work in industry and develop deliverable products with limited resources that real people will use. It's fascinating to me that there are no required courses in actually developing software.

## Course Format
The major graded components of this course are the quizzes, midterm and final, and the five projects. The quizzes and exams are relevant to the lectures and reading, and favor conceptual understanding over obscure knowledge. The first project provides a head-first introduction to some of the tools used throughout the course and, more importantly, an introduction to getting familiar with unfamiliar tools. The next four projects comprise the iconic IDB project, which is a data aggregation website that requires full-stack development.

## IDB
My team developed [poupon.me][poupon], which is a website about learning about the events and locations related to hip hop music. We collected data from public APIs to build a rich database of hip hop music, artists, news, and cities, as well as information about each of these. We used tools to collect and transform this data, and then loaded it into a PostgreSQL database. We built a web API using Flask to create a web server and SQLAlchemy to create an Object-Relational model for interfacing with our database. We used React and Bootstrap to build a dynamic frontend that allowed users to sort, filter, and search through our data on a computer or mobile device. Throughout the process we tracked issues with Trello and voted on user stories with PlanITPoker. The whole project was version controlled on GitHub.

Most of these were technologies that we had not used before. I had never used Flask, Postgres, React, or Bootstrap before and ended up working with all of them. I think that's the most important experience that this class gives you: working with unfamiliar technologies with an unfamiliar group of people.

## Conclusion
SWE is a lot to learn, and it can seem overwhelming. However, there are enough requirements and sufficient guidance such that it is entirely doable, even for a second year CS student such as myself. While not all of the technology combinations were perfect (why Flask with React instead of Express.js other than as an excuse to use Python?) and some of them had a steep learning curve (Google Cloud Platform cost us a few hours of sleep), they provided a real-world experience in integrating various systems into a functioning product.

The amount of hours I spent on the IDB project was on par with what I put into Operating Systems. By that I mean that it was a lot, and that it required a very significant time commitment outside of class. Ultimately, though, I feel that it was time well spent, and a good exercise in designing and prioritizing features in a real product where code maintainability really matters. Aside from that, the lectures were incredibly engaging and worth attending for more reasons than just the quiz points.

[poupon]: https://poupon.me