---
layout: default
title:  "Week 10"
date:   2017-11-06 23:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
We've been working on getting our API endpoints up to par so that our frontend can fully utilize our database. After the team created new versions of the endpoints that provided more information, I worked to update the React website to read the new API format. Eventually, of course, it will be important that our API is backward-compatible, but we are currently still working to finalize it.

After I had restored the old functionality of the React website, I worked to make use of the new data that was available. At the same time, I was adding loading indicators to each page, so that the user would be less likely to give up on using our website while it loaded. Now that we're about done with these features of the website, we still have a lot to do by Thursday.

## What's in your way?
Filtering, pagination, and sorting are going to be a challenge to do well in just three days. We are unfortunately quite behind and are definitely going to struggle to get these features added to our API and implemented on the frontend within the time constraint we have. Add to that two exams that I have to take, and it looks like another rough week.

## What will you do next week?
1. Study
2. Study
3. Try to survive my exams

## What's my experience of the class?
We were asked to do a small, impromptu presentation of our current website to a TA in class. This made me realize that it is actually fairly hard to sell the product we've created. Ideally, our website would aggregate data from our sources and present something entirely new and useful. I feel that at the moment, we simply rehash existing data more often than we create any new insights.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
We have begun deploying to another App Engine version we call "development". We deploy using the `--no-promote` flag to prevent it from accepting traffic to `poupon.me` and simply access the alternate version from its url in GCP Cloud Console. I was interested to learn that it is possible to view any of the running app versions, even if they are not serving traffic. This means that we never have to deploy anything to production to test the whole app at once.
