---
layout: default
title:  "Week 3"
date:   2017-09-17 21:40:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
I played catch-up. I had been working through some scheduling conflicts and only joined the class on Monday. I was expecting to take OOP and had been attending those lectures instead, so it was a bit of work to learn how to get everything set up and integrated for Python.

Once automated builds were working, I wrote out a simple solution to the [Collatz Conjecture](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/CollatzProblem.html) in Python. To get it going faster, I implemented a [lazy cache](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memoization) of cycle lengths, then a meta cache (precomputed cache) of max cycle lengths of fixed intervals. I tied them together with plenty of assertions.

## What's in your way?
I still feel like I'm lagging a bit behind. After subtracting classwork, sleep, and some time staying healthy, there seem to be few hours left in the day.

## What will you do next week?
1. Finish getting caught up
2. Submit some more internship apps
3. Have some fun

## What's my experience of the class?
It's been great so far. The content feels immediately relevant, in comparison to an important but more tedious class involving a fake assembly language. In my own projects, my usage of development tools has mostly been limited to `git` and `make`. I think this class will prove a great motivator for learning others.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
I didn't start working with Linux until fairly recently. This week I learned how to set my bash prompt. On the lab machines it turns out that it's pretty unproductive to set it in `~/.bashrc`. I've found that setting it in `~/.profile` works a lot better. Here's how it's done:

```bash
PS1="\$ "
```

And with your username@hostname and directory ([prompt expansions](https://ss64.com/bash/syntax-prompt.html)):

```bash
PS1="\u@\h:\w\$ "
```

And even some colors using [ANSI escapes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code):

```bash
C_RESET="\[\e[0m\]"
C_GREEN="\[\e[32;1m\]"
C_BLUE="\[\e[34;1m\]"
PS1="$C_GREEN\u@\h$C_BLUE:\w$C_RESET\$ "
```