---
layout: default
title:  "Week 4"
date:   2017-09-24 14:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
We were still working to get our group together during the beginning of the week, so we're running a bit behind. This weekend we're going to get together to hopefully hash out some user stories and finalize our project proposal. During the week I finished up my project for OS--not bad at all; it was the first one. I also had time to attend the ACM competitive programming competition on Friday.

## What's in your way?
Still haven't finished nailing down exactly what we're going to build. We have to find something that can be effectively modelled, but we have to build those models from existing data and provide some sort of new value to the user. 

## What will you do next week?
1. Plan our app
2. Create a static mockup
3. Do the minimum to keep up with my other classes

## What's my experience of the class?
There's lots of Python trivia going on. Don't get me wrong--I'm learning plenty of things about the language. I do think it's interesting that [type annotations](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0484/) only turned up in Python 3.5, considering how strongly typed of a language it is. In more type-apathetic languages like JavaScript, the decision to exclude variable typing from the syntax is less surprising.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
I recently read a [fun article](https://kristerw.blogspot.com/2017/09/why-undefined-behavior-may-call-never.html) that demonstrates how undefined behavior can have dangerous consequences. Specifically, it demonstrates how a malicious function that is never called actually can be called thanks to some unfortunate optimization by clang. I'm sure this is less relevant to the average Python developer but I think it's still an intersting read and something to keep in mind. I also read a very opinionated piece on why we should [kill the web](https://blog.plan99.net/its-time-to-kill-the-web-974a9fe80c89) with which I personally disagree, but didn't feel that I could fully respond to here. 