---
layout: default
title:  "Week 11"
date:   2017-11-12 15:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week was a crunch to get our sorting, filtering, pagination, and search functionality working. I started by choosing a modular design for this functionality. Since our website displays four different models (Artists, Albums, News, and Cities) in a relatively similar way, I decided to create a `PaginatedList` component that would support displaying a sorted, filtered, and paginated list of items. The `PaginatedList` component accepts several properties:
1. a component it should use to display each item in the list
2. a description of what options the user has to sort and filter its data
3. the actual list data. 

An example `PaginatedList` might look like this:

```jsx
<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
 sortOptions={{"Most popular": {sort: "popularity", order: "desc"}}}
 filterOptions={{"Genre": ["rap", "pop", "hip hop"]}} />
```

I wanted to separate the code that interacts with our API from the [`PaginatedList`][PaginatedList], as I imagined that we might have other kinds of components that would want to retrieve API data. I thought about creating a simple [higher-order component][HOC] but I felt like it might be messy to specify options to my `PaginatedList` using that design pattern. So I instead decided to create an [`APIAdapter`][APIAdapter] that uses [`React.cloneElement()`][cloneElement] to provide API data and an update callback as props to the `PaginatedList`. So code that looks like this:

```jsx
<APIAdapter endpoint="artists">
	<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
	 sortOptions={/* ... */} />
</APIAdatper>
```

renders to something like this:

```jsx
<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
 sortOptions={/* ... */}
 data={/* JSON from API response */}
 onUpdate={callbackFunc} />
```

The `PaginatedList` can then call the function provided in its onUpdate prop when it needs updated data, without knowing anything about the implementation of the `APIAdapter` (or whatever else is providing its data). I'm not sure exactly what this pattern is called, or if there's a more preferred way to do this.

## What's in your way?
School has been stressful.

## What will you do next week?
1. The virtual memory project in OS
2. Try to catch up with readings
3. Focus on staying healthy

## What's my experience of the class?
We've been looking at refactoring--restructuring code without changing its functionality or interfaces. I think that this is a very important thing to pay more attention to. We started by looking at some simple examples of refactoring some "movie rental" code that was given in the Refactoring book by Fowler. I feel like doing refactoring well is a hard thing, because most of the time we have to work within the restrictions of existing interfaces that are in use and can't be changed. I remember a quote from someone commenting that most people who write a bad API didn't realize they were writing an API in the first place. Maybe that was from a reading in this class.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
We have recently been wishing that we had done a bit more research on the React and Flask ecosystems, as we noticed recently that some previous projects had used things like [Flask-Restless][fr] that would have made our backend much cleaner and easier to use. I am still on the fence about whether I regret not using a Bootstrap component library like [reactstrap][rs]. I think I would recommend it but personally have not had any trouble pasting in Bootstrap boilerplate and modifying it by hand.

[HOC]: https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html
[PaginatedList]: https://github.com/swegroup2/IDB/blob/291ba5387de7018dba40e38349196cb431676943/poupon-web/src/Components.js#L32
[APIAdapter]: https://github.com/swegroup2/IDB/blob/291ba5387de7018dba40e38349196cb431676943/poupon-web/src/Components.js#L231
[cloneElement]: https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html#cloneelement
[fr]: http://flask-restless.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
[rs]: https://reactstrap.github.io/