---
layout: default
title:  "Week 5"
date:   2017-10-01 23:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week we built the static mockup of our site. We started by getting our app set up on Google Cloud Platform and using the `create-react-app` package to get a React website up and running quickly. We collected some sample data from our APIs, and built some React components to display it. I think that what we have working will be a good building block for the next project.

## What's in your way?
Classes are hard. I feel like I hardly have time for anything else. I think I'll find a better equilibrium now that we're getting into the swing of things.

## What will you do next week?
1. Knock out my first two exams on Monday
2. Keep working on recruiting
3. Finish my OS project by Friday

## What's my experience of the class?
Did we have class this week? Jokes aside, I was very focused on nailing down a basic grasp on the technologies we're planning to use so that our mockup site could be a useful foundation rather than a prototype that we'd have to completely tear apart. I have done a lot of JavaScript and worked with MVC but React is still a bit foreign to me. I hope my group wasn't discouraged by a couple of us taking on most of the responsibility of reverse-engineering enough React sample code to get a site running. I think we work together well and I hope someone can teach me how to build a backend.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Rather than having to run our own web server on top of App Engine or shoehorn something into Flask, we use App Engine itself to serve our static files. Our static files can be anything from CSS to JS source code files to images, and we need them to be accessible to our users' browsers. It turns out that we can set this up using our [app.yaml](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/standard/python/config/appref) file that gets deployed to GCP. We just add these lines:
```YAML
handlers:
- url: /(.*\..*)
  static_files: poupon-web/build/\1
```
The `url` property is a regular expression that matches any filename with any extension requested by a browser and serves the corresponding file from our static directory (which contains our React website). However, since we use [React Router](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/) to handle the routing on our frontend, we have to send any requests for pages to our `index.html`. React Router will then read the browser's URL and render the correct page on the client side. To route all requests for a page (directory) to `index.html`, we add the following lines:
```YAML
- url: /.*
  static_files: poupon-web/build/index.html
```
Simple enough. Anything that's not a static file will be routed to `index.html`. But wait, what if we want to run Flask too? No problem--we just decide that all of our API endpoints start with `/api/` and add the following route before the first two:
```YAML
- url: /api/.*
  script: main.app
```
This will send, for example, a request to `/api/artists` to our Flask app in `main.py`.