---
layout: default
title:  "Week 11"
date:   2017-11-20 01:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
I haven't had the chance to spend any time on the project this week. I spent the last week working to complete our implementation of virtual memory for Operating Systems. This was definitely the hardest project for that class yet, and we spent a lot of time working on our design to get it passing all of our tests. Making sure everything was properly synchronized was a struggle.

## What's in your way?
It's been hard to schedule anything that's not schoolwork recently. I've been working out less than I'd like to and not spending enough time with friends. I'm very much looking forward to taking a couple of days off for Thanksgiving before getting back into the swing of things.

## What will you do next week?
1. Start looking at what we can do to get our website fully up to spec
2. Try harder to focus on staying healthy
3. Take some time off

## What's my experience of the class?
I'm a little disappointed with our performance on phase 3 of the project. The evaluation was fair (after we resolved some minor discrepancies) but we just couldn't get everything done in the time we had. I think everyone on the team did everything we could do, but we're finding out too late into the game that our dataset doesn't quite lend itself to some of the requirements for the project. We struggled significantly with the full-text search functionality, and had to limit our search results to only inspect the names of our models. A lot of our model data is composed of relationships with other things in our database, which significantly complicated implementation on the backend. 
It is frustrating to feel like we couldn't meet our goals, but I think we were fairly successful in working with what we had within time constraints. 

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Nothing super interesting this week, but *do some research* not just on how your frameworks and tools work, but on how other people do the things you want to do with them. Our design for our project more or less held up, but I feel that we ran into a lot of minutia that required us to spend a lot of time developing and debugging code. I felt like a lot of this could have been avoided by more carefully taking advantage of existing tools.