---
layout: default
title:  "Week 11"
date:   2017-11-12 15:00:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week was a crunch to get our sorting, filtering, pagination, and search functionality working. I started by choosing a modular design for this functionality. Since our website displays four different models (Artists, Albums, News, and Cities) in a relatively similar way, I decided to create a `PaginatedList` component that would support displaying a sorted, filtered, and paginated list of items. The `PaginatedList` component accepts as properties a component it should use to display each item in the list, a description of what options the user has to sort and filter its data, and the actual list data. An example `PaginatedList` might look like this:

```jsx
<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
 sortOptions={{"Most popular": {sort: "popularity", order: "desc"}}}
 filterOptions={{"Genre": ["rap", "pop", "hip hop"]}} />
```

I wanted to separate the code that interacts with our API from the [`PaginatedList`][PaginatedList], as I imagined that we might have other kinds of components that would want to retrieve API data. I thought about creating a simple [higher-order component][HOC] but I was unclear on how to specify options to my `PaginatedList` using that design pattern. So I instead created an [`APIAdapter`][APIAdapter] that uses [`React.cloneElement()`][cloneElement] to provide API data and an update callback as props to the `PaginatedList`. So code that looks like this:

```jsx
<APIAdapter endpoint="artists">
	<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
	 sortOptions={/* ... */} />
</APIAdatper>
```

renders to something like this:

```jsx
<PaginatedList itemClass={ArtistItemComponent}
 sortOptions={/* ... */}
 data={/* JSON from API response */}
 onUpdate={callbackFunc} />
```

The `PaginatedList` can then call the function provided in its onUpdate prop when it needs updated data, without knowing anything about the implementation of the `APIAdapter` (or whatever else is providing its data). I'm not sure exactly what this pattern is called, or if there's a better way to do this.

## What's in your way?


## What will you do next week?


## What's my experience of the class?


## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?


[HOC]: https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html
[PaginatedList]: https://github.com/swegroup2/IDB/blob/291ba5387de7018dba40e38349196cb431676943/poupon-web/src/Components.js#L32
[APIAdapter]: https://github.com/swegroup2/IDB/blob/291ba5387de7018dba40e38349196cb431676943/poupon-web/src/Components.js#L231
[cloneElement]: https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html#cloneelement