---
layout: default
title:  "Week 8"
date:   2017-10-23 01:20:00 -0600
categories: swe
---

## What did you do this past week?
This week we designed the schema for our database. We created a graphical UML (ER) model using a tool called ERDPlus (not wonderful, but it's good for ER models). Next, we hand-wrote SQL statements to generate the schema. More recently, we recreated our models and schema in SQLAlchemy, which is actually pretty cool and *almost* makes things easy. More on that in "What's in your way?". I've also been working on OS which is refreshing in that I can understand the entire system and don't depend on hundreds of layers of abstraction all working flawlessly.

## What's in your way?
Google App Engine. Cloud Platform seems nice, sure. But Google App Engine Standard is pretty lackluster in terms of functionality. The real problem is that we've been sort of encouraged to use a relational database (via Cloud SQL), but App Engine Standard *barely* supports MySQL. When running some simple tests on our local machines, we can easily connect to our Cloud SQL databases. However, after discovering over the course of 4 hours that no, App Engine Standard **really does not** support Postgres, I spun up a MySQL database and still could not get SQLAlchemy to connect to it. A caveat of App Engine Standard is that it does not support third party Python libraries that are not written completely in Python. I tried using `pg8000`, a pure-Python Postgres adapter, rather than the more popular `psycopg2`, but to no avail. I'm currently trying to switch to App Engine Flex and have been deploying for about 15 minutes.

## What will you do next week?
1. Connect to a database from App Engine

## What's my experience of the class?
We've been working through some basic relational algebra concepts with some "poor-man's" Python implementations of `select`, `project`, and `join`s. This approach has been pretty helpful to me in understanding more precisely the semantics of these operations.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
Do not use App Engine Standard. Or, maybe do, since its deployment process is a lot simpler than that of App Engine Flex. If you do use Standard, definitely use the no-SQL Datastore rather than Cloud SQL. Unless I'm missing something, it's not worth the effort.
